Hey guys welcome back to the course.
OK so we have a pretty good understanding of what the most common types of content are out there.
And we have a rough idea of how big the playground is we have to play it with regards to how Lucy goosey
we can get with our topic matter great so we know what we can write about and how what form it should
probably be in.
But you know past that point.
What is it that makes content marketing work and what is it that makes it not work.
After all we all probably know some 22 year old backpacker who's traveled to 12 countries and now wants
to backpack for a living and isn't yet making it.
Well number one maybe you should title your blog something other than girl traveler and number two.
Perhaps you should start borrowing other people's Instagram photos of their beach feet because yours
look kind of weird.
There were three.
Well do the individual pieces of content on your site add any value.
Like at all.
Are they unique.
Do people read them and go.
I'm glad I read that.
Now I want you to really stop and be critical right now not critical like your mom when you moved back
after college but critical isn't really trying to think objectively about you.
I've read online.
They are the last thing you read online and think about how you found it.
Maybe you searched for a guide on how to install any apps emulator on your iPhone or maybe your friend
to post about famine in Africa after you read it did it actually stick with you.
Do you actually remember what it said and did the information of substantial impact on your day your
week.
Or you just read Eat Pray Love.
Did it change your life.
I'm sure you can remember a time you read something online and thought it was awesome.
Bookmarked to share it with your friends and maybe you still reference it today and I'm sure you can
also think of something you read and almost immediately wonder to yourself why did I just read that.
Well like we said before it all comes down to the guiding light the north star so to speak of content
marketing which is value if whatever you're reading or whatever you're writing provides value to the
reader it will stick and it will be a traffic generating asset.
Now that's all nice and whatnot.
Eat your vegetables and you'll become healthy.
Wash your hands and you won't contract cholera.
Make your content valuable and people will flock to it.
But what does value at the end of the day actually mean.
Because it's another one of those buzzwords.
I'm so sorry to constantly say at the end of the day value with respects to online content comes down
to really three things.
What does it entertain you to.
Does it educate you.
Or three does it compel you to do something it doesn't have to do.
All three of course to be valuable but it does need do at least one of those.
It's really those three things.
Does it entertain you educate and or compel you to do something.
OK so that goes for really all content out there.
If it has value that it's got one or more of those three elements for your purposes you'll most likely
want to focus on delivering value that educates and or compels people.
I'm not saying forget about entertaining people with your content but what I am saying is if you're
a business you probably don't want to focus on it exclusively unless you know of course if your business
is entertaining people like with stories doing a series of funny videos or something you know even generated
towards lifestyle content.
If that's the case and that's what you're doing then yes of course you do want to entertain them.
But for the vast majority of people no I think this is something at the very beginning at least you
should avoid most of you watching us though are trying to get customers to buy a product download an
app or connect with you for professional services of some kind.
Your best bets for value are going to come from content that educates and compels people to do something.
All right.
So let's concentrate on those two aspects just here for a little bit.
When people look for content that educates them in the end they'll ask themselves something did I learn
something from it.
Do I now understand the topic better.
And did I learn something that I can apply immediately or did it really do nothing for me there's nothing
I can do now that I couldn't do before this.
Sometimes it's easy to come up with ideas on what to teach people but sometimes it's really not.
OK so let's look at this from a different one.
When do people usually want to be educated by content online.
It's when they need to learn something or understand it better so they can apply this knowledge towards
something something like a job or a project they're working on research they're doing in support of
something bigger or like creating a plan or making a purchase.
Let me give you an example.
With all this talk of conta you might hear a lot about the importance of having say like an e-mail newsletter
on your site.
So at some point you might finally cave in and say OK let's start an e-mail newsletter.
How do I do that.
Well like everything else you probably would google some form of the question how do I set up an email
newsletter.
And when you do that search you'll find things like the beginner's guide to setting stuff up how to
guides for steps to do this the four steps to do that guides there are usually a lot of choices when
you search for educational content and if you wrote one of those pieces yourself and people click through
to it.
Yay for you.
Your stuff got found.
But that doesn't necessarily equal Valley at least not yet.
All it means is that your title seems promising enough for people to give it a shot.
That moment people start gazing upon your page the words and the graphics and the screenshots and the
Hopefully videos and everything else you created.
You'd better bring them something that will appease them at this moment.
So if you are searching for a guide for setting up an email newsletter How would you measure the value
of one of those content pieces that you landed on.
Well first off.
Number one does the content on the page match the title you clicked on from the search results.
In advertising we call this convergence.
It's the connection between what you're projecting you're going to sell me and then when I actually
get to your page what are you actually selling me.
It's very similar with content marketing it's the differences between the title because usually people
see the title and click on the title and then they go to the actual page with every title you create.
You also create an expectation or a promise.
So your blog post or video or whatever it needs needs to deliver on that promise.
You need to confirm that value does exist.
Number two is your content laid out or designed in a way that makes it easy to read and understand part
of the value of your content is its convenience and its usability.
If people have to work too hard to figure something out or if there's any confusion or doubt they'll
go somewhere else.
It's like putting together a Lego set without the directions.
Theoretically it is possible but I wouldn't suggest doing it nor would I find it enjoyable.
So with your content make it easy to consume.
Break up large pieces of text into smaller paragraphs turn lists into bullets.
Turn your written directions into numbered steps.
Use pictures to provide detail and context.
Make it easy to consume.
Number three is the information or solution provided.
Complete doesn't give you all the steps you need for setting this email thing up.
Are you getting the whole picture here.
If you say there are four steps setting up an email newsletter.
Other really four steps and are four steps enough and if you promised an ultimate guide in your title.
Did you deliver an actual ultimate guide.
You'd be amazed how many ultimate guides out there are only like two pages long.
Come on have you really provided a resource that's actually ultimate.
If anything is missing the reader's going to feel short changed on the value that you promised with
the headline and number four.
In the end does the content leave you with a clear idea of what to do first.
Like where do you go or what action to take.
This is a part of the value that is badly missing from a lot of quote unquote educational content out
there.
Articles and videos might bury you in details and knowledge but if you don't know where to start or
how to apply all of it that means they didn't really do their job.
So deliver the content promised in your title design and lay it out well make sure it's complete and
matches what you promised and then let people know what they need to do first after reading it.
I always said that valuable content should be educational and or compel people to do something while
by communicating a clear first step.
Compelling people with the direction that actually makes sense.
People like linear processes.
They don't want some abstract article that they're more confused at the end of than when they start
it.
You'll understand this better if you actually look at an example.
OK so let's say we Googled how to set up an email newsletter.
Now two of the results I see her are four steps to start your email newsletter the right way.
This is the wrong way from the flip a blog and a beginner's guide to starting an email newsletter and
building a mailing list from Venture Harbor.
Both the titles seem legit enough and I totally understand why people would check out the four steps.
First of all because 4 doesn't really sound like that many steps at all.
When you actually read it you realize that it's pretty weak.
That's spending too much time here.
Some of my thoughts from reading this.
You guys can read if you want to put in the resources.
It's pretty sloppily written.
Each one of the four steps is pretty weak and sometimes it really just goes off track which is hard
to do in a post that's as short as this is the author mentions data at some point in the article to
support a choice of an email service that tell you the actual data to back up their point.
Kind of makes you think there may be an affiliate.
There are no pictures here.
Nothing for me to look at.
Which.
Hey you know it's important sometimes the breakup all this tax done absolutely necessary.
But it's nice and generally put in the extra effort and at the end the question the author asked is
do you have an email list or tips for choosing a email service.
If I had an e-mail newsletter already why would I be reading an article about setting up a newsletter.
I'm left with a shaky recommendation for a service so I don't feel confident.
The value here is low.
There's a lot of mismatch in expectation and what I actually get so I generally am going to keep looking.
Now on the flip side it let's look at that venture herber blog post and I love the way it starts with
the first section titled Why would you want to run a newsletter.
That's a great question.
If I'm here reading this post it means I've wondered about that myself and it might not necessarily
be 100 percent convinced the other hits you with the right amount of stats to prove his point and he
gives you some good reasons why it makes sense for a business to have an email newsletter.
Great.
OK tell me some more.
It's got three sections of detailed information at Scott how to start a newsletter how to get email
addresses and how to send your first newsletter complete with screenshots and a pretty logical flow
to it all the other posts offered mostly advice.
This is the set of detailed instructions with advice sprinkled through out.
It tells you what to do and why not just why I ought to do it.
There's much more here I can apply immediately and I have confidence because each step is explained
to me through out in other words this poses a lot of value.
I've been educated and I'm now compelled to take the next step so we can evaluate content here.
But yes I know it's a different world when you're actually trying to create it yourself.
So let's recap.
When you start on the path you have to evaluate the piece before you post it.
Have you delivered on the promise your title makes.
If not hey.
A title can be changed or you can just rewrite what you wrote.
Number two.
Have you made it easy to read and consume.
If not please just keep editing it.
Put some Polish into it.
Or three.
Have you delivered everything you need to and have you given people a logical first step.
They can take after reading it if you don't.
All of those things and you should feel pretty comfortable enough to post what you've got your feedback
and engagement.
Like chairs and comments will tell you whether or not it worked.
All right guys that's enough content advice.
I'll see you in the next lecture.